Muscovy/Russia in DVG has the following problems:
1. They need a POP overhaul, especially in Tartaria (Volga Basin, Crimea, etc.)
2. Their expansion options are fairly haphazard and unfocused.

As a corollary, the steppe hordes Muscovy usually eats should have some options to unite and oppose Russian expansion. A hypothetical Tatar union should not simply function like a weak, south-oriented Russia, but should presumably have options to easily expand into areas that a unified Russia can't easily go.

POP overhaul:
Russians should likely be removed from most of the khanates, except perhaps for northern Nogai.
It may be reasonable to put some Russians in Byleorussia and the Cossack Hetmantate.
It might also be reasonable to put some Ruthenians in Muscovy, and perhaps in the Crimean Khanate, but that I am less certain of.
Tatars in Muscovy and perhaps parts of the khanates should be majority Orthodox Christian.

Events and decisions:
Siberia should not be required for Russian unification. Muscovy, Novgorod, and Pskov should be enough.
Once someone unites Russia, they should get an event to choose where to focus their expansion. I'm envisioning 3 focuses.

1. Pan-Slavic focus: Cores on Ruthenian lands, acceptance of Ruthenian culture POPs.
2. Southern focus - Cores to somewhere between Astrakhan and Azerbaijan. Option to slavicize Rostov-on-Don and move the capital there, as well a chance to accept some of the Tatar cultures
3. Northern focus - Cores on the Baltics (Livonia, Lithuania, Finland). Option to slavicize Riga or Nyenschatz (modern day St. Petersburg) and move the capital there, as well as a chance to accept some local cultures.

The Pan-Slavic focus should provide the most accepted POPs, but the decisions to move the capital should provide a major population growth (liferating AND an extra temporary boost), internal immigration, and assimilation boost.

Russia should be able to expand into Siberia and butt heads with Japan no matter what focus they take, since the eastern hordes probably aren't going to make it out alive. AI Russia and Japan should be very likely to release a Trans-Siberian puppet state if they cannot decisively take control of the area. 
